Documentation for the Data Prepper OpenSearch source (#5144)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/opensearch.md

```yaml
opensearch-source-pipeline:
  source:
    opensearch:
      hosts: [ "https://localhost:9200" ]
      username: "username"
      password: "password"
      indices:
        include:
          - index_name_regex: "test-index-.*"
        exclude:
          - index_name_regex: "\..*"  
      scheduling:
        interval: "PT1H"
        index_read_count: 2
        start_time: "2023-06-02T22:01:30.00Z"
      search_options:
        search_context_type: "none"
        batch_size: 1000
      connection:
        insecure: false
        cert: "/path/to/cert.crt"
  ...
```

## Amazon OpenSearch Service

The `opensearch` source can be configured for an Amazon OpenSearch service domain by passing an `sts_role_arn` with access to the domain, as shown in the following example:

```yaml
opensearch-source-pipeline:
  source:
    opensearch:
      hosts: [ "https://search-my-domain-soopywaovobopgs8ywurr3utsu.us-east-1.es.amazonaws.com" ]
      aws:
        region: "us-east-1"
        sts_role_arn: "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/my-domain-role"
  ...
```

## Using Metadata

> When the `opensource` source constructs Data Prepper events from documents in the cluster, the document index is stored in the EventMetadata with an `opensearch-index` key, and the document_id is stored in the `EventMetadata` with the `opensearch-document_id` as the key. This allows for conditional routing based on the index or `document_id`. The following example sends events to an `opensearch` sink and uses the same index and `document_id` from the source cluster as in the destination cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the `opensource` source constructs Data Prepper events from documents in the cluster, the document index is stored in the EventMetadata with an `opensearch-index` key, and the document_id is stored in the `EventMetadata` with the `opensearch-document_id` as the key. This allows for conditional routing based on the index or `document_id`. The following example pipeline configuration sends events to an `opensearch` sink and uses the same index and `document_id` from the source cluster as in the destination cluster:
```

        password: "password"
        document_id: "${getMetadata(\"opensearch-document_id\")}"
        index: "${getMetadata(\"opensearch-index\"}"
```

## Configuration options

The following table describes options you can configure for the `opensearch` source.

Option | Required | Type    | Description
:--- | :--- |:--------| :---
`hosts` | Yes | List    | A list of OpenSearch hosts to write to, for example, `["https://localhost:9200", "https://remote-cluster:9200"]`.
`username` | No | String  | The username for HTTP basic authentication.
`password` | No | String  | The password for HTTP basic authentication.
`disable_authentication` | No | Boolean | Whether authentication is disabled. Defaults to `false`.
`aws` | No | Object  | The AWS configuration. For more information, see [aws](#aws).
`acknowledgments` | No | Boolean | When `true`, enables the `opensearch` source to receive [end-to-end acknowledgments]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/pipelines/#end-to-end-acknowledgments) when events are received by OpenSearch sinks. Default is `false`.
`connection` | No | Object  | The connection configuration. For more information, see [Connection](#connection).

> `indices` | No | Object | The indices configuration for filtering which indexes are processed. Defaults to all indices, including system indices. For more information, see [Indices](#indices).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`indices` | No | Object | The configuration for filtering which indexes are processed. Defaults to all indexes, including system indexes. For more information, see [Indices](#indices).
```

`scheduling` | No | Object | The scheduling configuration. For more information, see [Scheduling](#scheduling).

> `search_options` | No | Object | The search options configuration. For more information, see [Search options](#search_options).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`search_options` | No | Object | A list of search options of procedures. For more information, see [Search options](#search_options).
```

### Scheduling

The `scheduling` configuration allows the user to configure how indexes are reprocessed in the source based on the the `index_read_count` and recount time `interval`. 
For example, setting `index_read_count` to `3` with an `interval` of `1h` will result in all indices being processed three times, one hour apart. By default, indexes will only be processed once.

> Option | Required | Type            | Description

Reviewer: Let me know if the edit shown above works for you.

:--- | :--- |:----------------| :---
`index_read_count` | No | Integer | The number of times each index will be processed. Default is `1`.

> `interval` | No | String | The interval to reprocess indexes. Supports ISO_8601 notation Strings ("PT20.345S", "PT15M", etc.) as well as simple notation Strings for seconds ("60s") and milliseconds ("1500ms"). Defaults to `8h`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`interval` | No | String | The interval in which indexes are reprocessed. Supports ISO_8601 notation strings, such as "PT20.345S" or "PT15M", as well as simple notation strings for seconds ("60s") and milliseconds ("1500ms"). Defaults to `8h`.
```

> `start_time` | No | String | The instant of time when processing should begin. The source will not start processing until this instant is reached. The String must be in ISO-8601 format, such as `2007-12-03T10:15:30.00Z`. Defaults to starting processing immediately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`start_time` | No | String | The time when processing should begin. The source will not start processing until this instant is reached. The String must be in ISO-8601 format, such as `2007-12-03T10:15:30.00Z`. The default option starts processing immediately. 
```

### indices

> The following options help the `opensearch` source which indexes are processed from the source cluster using regex patterns. An index will only be processed if it matches one of the `index_name_regex` patterns under the `include` setting and does not match any of the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following options help the `opensearch` source determine which indexes are processed from the source cluster using regex patterns. An index will only be processed if it matches one of the `index_name_regex` patterns under the `include` setting and does not match any of the 
```

patterns under `exclude` setting.

Option | Required | Type  | Description
:--- | :--- |:-----------------| :---

> `include` | No | Array of Objects | A list of index configuration patterns that specifies which indexes will be processed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`include` | No | Array of objects | A list of index configuration patterns that specifies which indexes will be processed.
```

`exclude` | No | Array of Objects | A list of index configuration patterns that specifies which indexes will not be processed. For example, you can specify an `index_name_regex` pattern of `\..*` to exclude system indices.

> Use the following setting under the `include` and `exclude` options to indicate the regex pattern for the index.

Reviewer 2: Add a row between the intro and the table.

> Use the following setting under the `include` and `exclude` options to indicate the regex pattern for the index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Use the following setting under the `include` and `exclude` options to indicate the regex pattern for the index.
```

Option | Required | Type    | Description
:--- |:----|:-----------------| :---

> `index_name_regex` | Yes | Regex String | The regex pattern to match indexes against. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`index_name_regex` | Yes | Regex string | The regex pattern to match indexes against. 
```

### search_options

Use the following settings under the `search_options` configuration.

Option | Required | Type    | Description
:--- |:---------|:--------| :---

> `batch_size` | No       | Integer | The number of documents to read at a time while paginating from OpenSearch. Default is `1000` 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`batch_size` | No       | Integer | The number of documents to read while paginating from OpenSearch. Default is `1000`. 
```

> `search_context_type` | No | Enum | An override for the type of search/pagination to use on indices. Can be [point_in_time]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/searching-data/paginate/#point-in-time-with-search_after)), [scroll]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/searching-data/paginate/#scroll-search), or `none`. The `none` option will use the [search_after]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/searching-data/paginate/#the-search_after-parameter) parameter. For more information, see [Default Search Behavior](#default_search_behavior) for default behavior.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`search_context_type` | No | Enum | An override for the type of search/pagination to use on indexes. Can be [point_in_time]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/searching-data/paginate/#point-in-time-with-search_after)), [scroll]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/searching-data/paginate/#scroll-search), or `none`. The `none` option will use the [search_after]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/searching-data/paginate/#the-search_after-parameter) parameter. For more information, see [Default Search Behavior](#default_search_behavior).
```

### Default search behavior

> By default, the `opensearch` source will lookip the cluster version and distribution to determine 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, the `opensearch` source will look up the cluster version and distribution to determine 
```

which `search_context_type` to use. For versions and distributions that support [Point in Time](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/searching-data/paginate/#point-in-time-with-search_after), `point_in_time` will be used. 
If `point_in_time` is not supported by the cluster, then [scroll](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/searching-data/paginate/#scroll-search) will be used. For Amazon OpenSearch Serverless collections, [search_after](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/searching-data/paginate/#the-search_after-parameter)

> will be used because neither `point_in_time` or `scroll` are supported by collections.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
will be used because neither `point_in_time` nor `scroll` are supported by collections.
```

### Connection

Use the following settings under the `connection` configuration.

Option | Required | Type    | Description
:--- | :--- |:--------| :---

> `cert` | No | String  | The path to the security certificate, for example `"config/root-ca.pem"`, when the cluster uses the OpenSearch Security plugin.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`cert` | No | String  | The path to the security certificate, for example, `"config/root-ca.pem"`, when the cluster uses the OpenSearch Security plugin.
```

`insecure` | No | Boolean | Whether or not to verify SSL certificates. If set to `true`, the certificate authority (CA) certificate verification is disabled and insecure HTTP requests are sent. Default is `false`.

### AWS

Use the following options when setting up authentication for `aws` services.

Option | Required | Type    | Description
:--- | :--- |:--------| :---
`region` | No | String  | The AWS Region to use for credentials. Defaults to [standard SDK behavior to determine the Region](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-java/latest/developer-guide/region-selection.html).
`sts_role_arn` | No | String  | The AWS Security Token Service (AWS STS) role to assume for requests to Amazon OpenSearch Service and Amazon OpenSearch Serverless. Default is `null`, which will use the [standard SDK behavior for credentials](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-java/latest/developer-guide/credentials.html).

> `serverless` | No | Boolean | Should be set to true when processing from an Amazon OpenSearch Serverless collection. Defaults to false.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`serverless` | No | Boolean | Should be set to `true` when processing from an Amazon OpenSearch Serverless collection. Defaults to `false`.
```

## OpenSearch cluster security

> In order to pull data from an OpenSearch cluster using the `opensearch` source plugin, you must specify your username and password within the pipeline configuration. The following example `pipelines.yaml` file demonstrates how to specify the default admin security credentials:

Reviewer 2: Should `pipelines.yaml` be `pipeline.yaml`?

> In order to pull data from an OpenSearch cluster using the `opensearch` source plugin, you must specify your username and password within the pipeline configuration. The following example `pipelines.yaml` file demonstrates how to specify the default admin security credentials:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to pull data from an OpenSearch cluster using the `opensearch` source plugin, you must specify your username and password within the pipeline configuration. The following example `pipeline.yaml` file demonstrates how to specify the default admin security credentials:
```

> In order to pull data from an OpenSearch cluster using the `opensearch` source plugin, you must specify your username and password within the pipeline configuration. The following example `pipelines.yaml` file demonstrates how to specify the default admin security credentials:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to pull data from an OpenSearch cluster using the `opensearch` source plugin, you must specify your username and password within the pipeline configuration. The following example `pipelines.yaml` file demonstrates how to specify the default admin security credentials:
```

```yaml
source:
  opensearch:
    username: "admin"
    password: "admin"
  ...
```

### Amazon OpenSearch Service domain security

> The `opensearch` source plugin can pull data from an [Amazon OpenSearch Service](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/opensearch-service/latest/developerguide/what-is.html) domain, which uses IAM for security. The plugin uses the default credential Amazon OpenSearch Service credential chain. Run `aws configure` using the [AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI)](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/) to set your credentials.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `opensearch` source plugin can pull data from an [Amazon OpenSearch Service](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/opensearch-service/latest/developerguide/what-is.html) domain, which uses AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) for security. The plugin uses the default Amazon OpenSearch Service credential chain. Run `aws configure` using the [AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI)](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/) to set your credentials.
```

      "Principal": {
        "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::<AccountId>:user/data-prepper-user"
      },
      "Action": "es:ESHttpPost",
      "Resource": [
        "arn:aws:es:us-east-1:<AccountId>:domain/<domain-name>/*/_search/point_in_time",
        "arn:aws:es:us-east-1:<AccountId>:domain/<domain-name>/*/_search/scroll"
      ]
    },
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::<AccountId>:user/data-prepper-user"
      },
      "Action": "es:ESHttpDelete",
      "Resource": [
        "arn:aws:es:us-east-1:<AccountId>:domain/<domain-name>/_search/point_in_time",
        "arn:aws:es:us-east-1:<AccountId>:domain/<domain-name>/_search/scroll"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

For instructions on how to configure the domain access policy, see [Resource-based policies
](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/opensearch-service/latest/developerguide/ac.html#ac-types-resource) in the Amazon OpenSearch Service documentation.

### OpenSearch Serverless collection security

The `opensearch` source plugin can receive data from an [Amazon OpenSearch Serverless](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/opensearch-service/latest/developerguide/serverless.html) collection.

> You can not read from a collection that uses virtual private cloud (VPC) access. The collection must be accessible from public networks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You cannot read from a collection that uses virtual private cloud (VPC) access. The collection must be accessible from public networks.
```

{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "aoss:APIAccessAll"
            ],
            "Resource": "arn:aws:aoss:*:<AccountId>:collection/*"
        }
    ]
}
```

#### Creating a collection

Next, create a collection with the following settings:

- Public [network access](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/opensearch-service/latest/developerguide/serverless-network.html) to both the OpenSearch endpoint and OpenSearch Dashboards.
- The following [data access policy](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/opensearch-service/latest/developerguide/serverless-data-access.html), which grants the required permissions to the pipeline role, as shown in the following configuration:

  ```json
  [
   {
      "Rules":[
         {
            "Resource":[
               "index/collection-name/*"
            ],
            "Permission":[
               "aoss:ReadDocument",
               "aoss:DescribeIndex"
            ],
            "ResourceType":"index"
         }
      ],
      "Principal":[
         "arn:aws:iam::<AccountId>:role/PipelineRole"
      ],
      "Description":"Pipeline role access"
   }
  ]
  ```

> Make sure to replace the ARN in the `Principal` element with the ARN of the pipeline role that you created in the preceding step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure to replace the Amazon Resource Name (ARN) in the `Principal` element with the ARN of the pipeline role that you created in the preceding step.
```

{: .tip}

>  For instructions on how to create collections, see [Creating collections](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/opensearch-service/latest/developerguide/serverless-manage.html#serverless-create) in the Amazon OpenSearch Service documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For instructions on how to create collections, see [Creating collections](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/opensearch-service/latest/developerguide/serverless-manage.html#serverless-create) in the Amazon OpenSearch Service documentation.
```

#### Creating a pipeline

> Within your `pipelines.yaml` file, specify the OpenSearch Serverless collection endpoint as the `hosts` option. In addition, you must set the `serverless` option to `true`. Specify the pipeline role in the `sts_role_arn` option, as shown in the following example:

Reviewer 2: Should `pipelines.yaml` be `pipeline.yaml`?

> Within your `pipelines.yaml` file, specify the OpenSearch Serverless collection endpoint as the `hosts` option. In addition, you must set the `serverless` option to `true`. Specify the pipeline role in the `sts_role_arn` option, as shown in the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within your `pipeline.yaml` file, specify the OpenSearch Serverless collection endpoint as the `hosts` option. In addition, you must set the `serverless` option to `true`. Specify the pipeline role in the `sts_role_arn` option, as shown in the following example:
```

---
layout: default

> title: opensearch source

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: opensearch 
```

`aws` | No | Object  | The AWS configuration. For more information, see [aws](#aws).
`acknowledgments` | No | Boolean | When `true`, enables the `opensearch` source to receive [end-to-end acknowledgments]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/pipelines/#end-to-end-acknowledgments) when events are received by OpenSearch sinks. Default is `false`.
`connection` | No | Object  | The connection configuration. For more information, see [Connection](#connection).
`indices` | No | Object | The configuration for filtering which indexes are processed. Defaults to all indexes, including system indexes. For more information, see [Indices](#indices).
`scheduling` | No | Object | The scheduling configuration. For more information, see [Scheduling](#scheduling).
`search_options` | No | Object | A list of search options performed by the source. For more information, see [Search options](#search_options).

### Scheduling

The `scheduling` configuration allows the user to configure how indexes are reprocessed in the source based on the the `index_read_count` and recount time `interval`. 

> For example, setting `index_read_count` to `3` with an `interval` of `1h` will result in all indexes being processed 3 times, 1 hour apart. By default, indexes will only be processed once. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, setting `index_read_count` to `3` with an `interval` of `1h` will result in all indexes being reprocessed 3 times, 1 hour apart. By default, indexes will only be processed once. 
```

Use the following options under the `scheduling` configuration.

Option | Required | Type            | Description
:--- | :--- |:----------------| :---
`index_read_count` | No | Integer | The number of times each index will be processed. Default is `1`.

> `interval` | No | String | The interval in which indexes are reprocessed. Supports ISO_8601 notation strings, such as "PT20.345S" or "PT15M", as well as simple notation strings for seconds ("60s") and milliseconds ("1500ms"). Defaults to `8h`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`interval` | No | String | The interval that determines the amount of time between reprocessing. Supports ISO 8601 notation strings, such as "PT20.345S" or "PT15M", as well as simple notation strings for seconds ("60s") and milliseconds ("1500ms"). Defaults to `8h`.
```

> `start_time` | No | String | The time when processing should begin. The source will not start processing until this instant is reached. The String must be in ISO-8601 format, such as `2007-12-03T10:15:30.00Z`. The default option starts processing immediately. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`start_time` | No | String | The time when processing should begin. The source will not start processing until this instant is reached. The string must be in ISO-8601 format, such as `2007-12-03T10:15:30.00Z`. The default option starts processing immediately. 
```

> `start_time` | No | String | The time when processing should begin. The source will not start processing until this instant is reached. The string must be in ISO 8601 format, such as `2007-12-03T10:15:30.00Z`. The default option starts processing immediately. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`start_time` | No | String | The time when processing should begin. The source will not start processing until this time. The string must be in ISO 8601 format, such as `2007-12-03T10:15:30.00Z`. The default option starts processing immediately. 
```

patterns under the `exclude` setting.

Option | Required | Type  | Description
:--- | :--- |:-----------------| :---
`include` | No | Array of objects | A list of index configuration patterns that specifies which indexes will be processed.
`exclude` | No | Array of Objects | A list of index configuration patterns that specifies which indexes will not be processed. For example, you can specify an `index_name_regex` pattern of `\..*` to exclude system indexes.

Use the following setting under the `include` and `exclude` options to indicate the regex pattern for the index.

Option | Required | Type    | Description
:--- |:----|:-----------------| :---
`index_name_regex` | Yes | Regex string | The regex pattern to match indexes against. 

### search_options

Use the following settings under the `search_options` configuration.

Option | Required | Type    | Description
:--- |:---------|:--------| :---
`batch_size` | No       | Integer | The number of documents to read while paginating from OpenSearch. Default is `1000`. 

> `search_context_type` | No | Enum | An override for the type of search/pagination to use on indexes. Can be [point_in_time]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/searching-data/paginate/#point-in-time-with-search_after)), [scroll]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/searching-data/paginate/#scroll-search), or `none`. The `none` option will use the [search_after]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/searching-data/paginate/#the-search_after-parameter) parameter. For more information, see [Default Search Behavior](#default_search_behavior).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`search_context_type` | No | Enum | An override for the type of search/pagination to use on indexes. Can be [point_in_time]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/searching-data/paginate/#point-in-time-with-search_after)), [scroll]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/searching-data/paginate/#scroll-search), or `none`. The `none` option will use the [search_after]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/searching-data/paginate/#the-search_after-parameter) parameter. For more information, see [Default Search Behavior](#default-search-behavior).
```
